# DS4003FinalTermProject

Dashboard Link: https://ds4003finaltermproject.onrender.com

The following dashboard was inspired by a dataset found alongside data describing the quality of life of a 137 countries based on this weighted dashboard: https://www.worlddata.info/quality-of-life.php

In researching a term project idea, a concept I learned about revolved around the usefulness and reliability of setting weights to specific metrics. By setting manual weights of metrics you value, an individual is inadvertently setting marginal rates for what trade-offs they are willing to make. A user may not recognize that as they move the dials for their own weightings in the original dashboard, their rankings will be skewed and may not reflect their initial assumptions that the dial presents. In order to remedy this, I sought out to eliminate the ability to 'rank' and weight metrics, and instead allow users to make their own decisions based on metrics they value more than others. For example, in the previous dashboard, if I valued safety over everything else, I would slide my weighting further. How far my weighting is shifted is entirely dependent on the range of the metric, which is unknown to the user. In this example, rankings are not utilized and an objective, side by side comparison by metric and country is presented. Objective, transparent analysis is the goal.

The process of data analysis, wrangling, and design prioritized usability and organization. A radar chart showcasing all metrics, normalized, is prioritized in the design and instructions are presented centered above the UI dropdown components. The only action the user is inclined to make comes first and allows for immediate feedback to be given to the user by the graph components that shift below their selections. All selections are color coded and inline to aid with understanding. The 1+1=3 rule is embodied by the scrolling structure and space inbetween sections (i.e. the first graph chunk vs. the map). 

The strength of this dashboard lies in the fact that the data is simple - it only has around 7 columns. However, there is an endless amount of decisions that can be made by showcasing comparisons side by side. A key concept in the process involved choosing the right graphic, since too many graphs would result in cognitive overload. However, the right amount that show all metrics relative to one another can prove to be useful. 
